.TH HATOP 1 "19 August 2010"
.SH NAME
HATop \- interactive ncurses client for haproxy
.SH SYNOPSIS
hatop \-s \fISOCKET\fB [\fIOPTIONS\fB]
.SH DESCRIPTION
HATop is an interactive ncurses client and real\-time monitoring,
statistics displaying tool for the HAProxy TCP/HTTP load balancer.

HATop's appearance is similar to top(1). It supports various modes for
detailed statistics of all configured proxies and services in near realtime.
In addition, it features an interactive CLI for the haproxy unix socket.
This allows administrators to control the given haproxy instance
(change server weight, put servers into maintenance mode, ...) directly out
of hatop (using keybinds or the CLI) and monitor the results immediately.

HATop uses a unix domain socket to communicate with HAProxy.  This can be
configured in the HAProxy configuration using the "stats socket" option.
To enable all of HATop's features the "level" parameter of this option
should be set to "admin".
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fP
show version number and exit
.TP
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fP
show help message and exit
.TP
\fB\-s \fISOCKET\fB, \-\-unix\-socket=\fISOCKET\fP
path to the haproxy stats socket
.TP
\fB\-i \fIINTERVAL\fB, \-\-update\-interval=\fIINTERVAL\fP
update interval in seconds (1\-30, default: 3)
.TP
\fB\-m \fIMODE\fB, \-\-mode=\fIMODE\fP
start in specific mode (1\-5, default: 1)
.TP
\fB\-n, \-\-read\-only\fP
disable the cli and query for stats only

.PP
The following filter options may be given multiple times:
.TP
\fB\-f \fIFILTER\fB, \-\-filter=\fIFILTER\fP
stat filter in format "<iid> <type> <sid>"
.TP
\fB\-p \fIPROXY\fB, \-\-proxy=\fIPROXY\fP
proxy filter in format "<pxname>"
.SH KEYBINDS
.TP
\fBHh?\fP
Display help screen
.TP
\fBQq\fP
Quit
.TP
\fBTAB\fP
Cycle mode forwards
.TP
\fBS\-TAB\fP
Cycle mode backwards
.TP
\fBESC\-n\fP
Switch to mode n, where n is the numeric mode id
.TP
\fBESC\fP
Jump to previous mode
.TP
\fBENTER\fP
Display hotkey menu for selected service
.TP
\fBSPACE\fP
Copy and paste selected service identifier to the CLI
.TP
\fBUP\fP / \fBDOWN\fP / \fBPGUP\fP / \fBPGDOWN\fP / \fBHOME\fP / \fBEND\fP
Scroll the stat views to select a given service
.SH HOTKEYS
.TP
\fBF4\fP
Restore initial server weight

.TP
\fBF5\fP
Decrease server weight:     \- 10
.TP
\fBF6\fP
Decrease server weight:     \-  1
.TP
\fBF7\fP
Increase server weight:     +  1
.TP
\fBF8\fP
Increase server weight:     + 10

.TP
\fBF9\fP
Enable server (return from maintenance mode)
.TP
\fBF10\fP
Disable server (put into maintenance mode)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR haproxy (1)

A much better documentation can be found online:
.PP
http://feurix.org/projects/hatop/
.SH AUTHOR
HATop and this man page was written by John Feuerstein.
